hey everybody welcome back to the
channel uh I'm Evan co-founder of hello
interview and a former meta staff
engineer and in this series we've been
breaking down common system design
interview questions together and today
we got a new one for you so today we're
going to work through designing Facebook
live comments of course this isn't
limited to Facebook uh it's any live
streaming platform but the live comments
feature so the the comments that come in
under the video This is actually the
second most popular question asked in
meta system design interviews uh and
it's really popular across all of the
major fangs so it's a good one to know
uh if you like this content you want
more of course I'm obligated to say it
please like And subscribe it really
helps us and the increasing number of
subscribers is really motivating for us
to continue to make these videos Stephan
and I want to make a lot more of these
in 2025 particularly in the beginning of
the year so uh subscribe you'll get the
notification when those come out if
videos aren't your thing head over to
hello interview.com I have a written
guide for this exact problem that you
can read through um there's also dozens
of others on the site we also have
guided practice which is a tool that
allows you to try this problem and about
20 others you get to draw on the
Whiteboard you get personalized feedback
as you go candidates really really love
it so check it out um and there's tons
of other free content on h.com that's
going to help you prepare for interviews
including maybe most importantly mock
interviews with senior plus Engineers or
Managers from your target company people
just like me who are going to sit down
for an hour with you um and kind of let
you know where your gaps are and give
you everything you need to to to know to
make sure that you're successful in your
interview so without further Ado let's
get into it
so as always before we jump into the
actual design let's take a moment to go
over the road map or the framework that
we're going to use throughout this video
and it's the framework that I recommend
that you use in your real system design
interviews and so if you've watched any
of our other videos you've seen me do
this a 100 times you're tired of it feel
free to fast forward um but for anybody
who's new we're going to go through
these six steps uh first off we're going
to outline the requirements of the
system and so this is your opportunity
to ensure that you are on the same page
with your interviewer about the system
that you're going to build this includes
what we call the functional requirements
or the core features of the system as
well as the non-functional requirements
or the qualities of the
system after that we're going to outline
a very basic list of core entities and
so this can be thought of the nouns of
your system often times this correlates
almost one to one with the tables in
your database but we're going to stop
short of outlining the full data schema
or modeling any relationships the
justification being that we just don't
know it yet it's too early in our design
but we do want to outline the nouns
because they're going to give us the
context necessary to understand our API
and then move into our high level design
and so once we have those core entities
down as I said we go into the API uh
this is where we'll outline the core
user-facing apis and we'll exchange
those core entities um that we outlined
in step two now from here data flow this
is for infrastructure heavy system
design interviews um you'll need to to
decide on the Fly whether or not it
applies in this case uh it won't and so
we're going to jump right into set five
which is the highle design the high
level design is when we head over to the
Whiteboard we start drawing boxes and
arrows in order to outline a very simple
system where the goal is to satisfy our
core functional requirements so in this
case we're not going to satisfy the
non-functional yet our system might not
be able to scale it might not be low
latency it's very basic um but it's the
minimum required system in order to
satisfy the those core functional
requirements so we'll get that down and
then we'll move on to step six the Deep
Dives and so this is where things get
interesting this is where senior and
particularly staff candidates uh show
their worth and this is where we're
going to go one by one through those
non-functional requirements that we
outlined in order to expand upon our
design um our original highle design um
in order to make sure that we satisfy
the non-functional requirements so this
is where we'll handle the scaling the
latency concerns security concerns
anything like that that comes up so
that's the outline that we're going to
follow let's do that
now before we jump into our first step
which will be the functional
requirements let's just take a really
brief moment to at a high level explain
what FB live comments are so you're
probably familiar with Facebook live
Facebook live is a feature within the
Facebook app which allows users to live
stream videos to their
audiences now what we're going to be
designing is what happens under that
live stream this is going to be the
comments that get streamed in in real
time so as users are watching a video
they can be posting comments and
reacting to the video as it's happening
those comments get streamed to all other
users as I said in near real time and so
of course this is not exclusive to
Facebook this is true of Tik Tok live
this is true of Instagram live this is
true of twitch YouTube live any
streaming platform uh so the solution
that we're going to have here applies to
any of those awesome okay so let's get
started with our our functional
requirements
as I had mentioned the functional
requirements are the core features of
the system this is where you're going to
agree with your interviewer on what you
are designing now in our case our our
core features are relatively
straightforward I'm going to paste them
in because it's going to be better than
you guys watching me struggle through
typing here in the live video but the
core functional requirements of Facebook
live comments are first most obviously
users or viewers need to be able to post
a comment that's crucial Fant CLC the
second is that viewers can see all
comments posted in near real time and so
as new comments are coming in we're
appending those comments to the bottom
of the list or the log so that users can
see them importantly without having to
refresh their page or anything and then
third is that you should be able to see
all the comments that were posted before
you joined and so maybe uh in the case
of Facebook live Tik Tok live this means
that you can scroll up on your feed of
comments and it'll load or older
comments that you can still view so
those are going to be our core
functional requirements now I put some
things below the line here these are
things that would be reasonable in an
interview like this but are going to be
out of scope for us that's the ability
to reply to comments and the ability to
react to comments or even just react to
the video in general and so one thing to
note about this below the line thing
don't feel obligated to do this in your
interview my suggestion would be to use
this technique of below the line or out
of scope only if you're in the proc
process of brainstorming and something
comes to you that you discuss out loud
and then agree with the interviewer that
it's out of scope so if you're thinking
in brainstorming about the functional
requirements and you say something to
the interviewer like well should users
be able to reply to other comments and
they say no let's consider that out of
scope then that's something that you can
specify is below the line basically a
contract between you and your
interviewer of these are the things that
I'm going to focus on these things are
not next up are those non-functional
requirements and so non-functional
requirements are statements about the
system's qualities that are important to
the user and so they can be phrased like
the system should be able to or the
system should be statements so for
example if you're designing something
like Twitter it's like the system should
be highly available prioritizing
availability or consistency the system
should be able to scale to XYZ right
some things you want to talk about here
cap theorem uh scalability latency
durability security fault tolerance
compliance these are all the things you
want to consider but crucially you don't
want to just list those out the reality
is that most systems nowadays need to do
all those things but what you're doing
in your non-functional requirements is
calling out to your interviewer the set
of qualities that are uniquely relevant
and interesting to this problem and the
things that you're going to prioritize
when discussing the interview so let me
paste in a list here of non-functional
requirements that we can discuss so for
non-functional requirements here are
some things I want us to discuss so
first off is scale at this point in the
interview I would ask my interviewer
what's the scale that we're talking
about here they might ask you to
estimate it or they might tell you often
times when I'm the interviewer I'll just
tell you here and in this case we want
to scale to millions of concurrent
videos and up to thousands of comments
per second per video uh so this is going
to be a lot this is going to be huge
scale actually there's a there's a fun
fact here that I think I put in the
write up and that's that the most
popular Facebook live video was called
Chewbacca's mom funnily enough uh and it
featured a mom thoroughly enjoying some
plastic you know Chewbacca mask and it
been viewed over 180 million times and
so that's tons of concurrent viewers we
can estimate some portion of them were
commenters um and that that would get us
to you know these thousands of comments
per second no problem and so the second
thing that we're going to consider here
is Cap theorem we've considered scale
now we're going to consider cap theorem
now cap theorem you want to consider in
almost any system design interview it
goes far as to say any system design
interview and the question here is do we
prioritize availability or
consistency and so uh the way to think
about this and we have a video
specifically on this tradeoff but do you
need strong consistency put in that
another way is does every single right
or does every single read of your system
need to be reading the latest right and
so in the case of our comment creation
does everybody need to see the latest
comment immediately when it comes in and
the answer is clearly no like we want
real time low latency broadcasting
that's what we'll get to next but
it's not an error if that doesn't happen
right we would rather be highly
available we'd rather you get comments
than see no comments just because we
can't show you the very latest comment
hopefully that makes sense and so in our
system we're going to prioritize
availability over consistency as it
pertains to creating comments and thus
reading those comments and then the
third thing we want to consider here is
around
latency and so we do despite our
eventual consistency want to be as quick
as possible possible to broadcast new
comments to users right it wouldn't make
too much sense if you're watching a
World Cup broadcast Messi scores a goal
and then five minutes later people are
commenting oh Messi what a goal right
you want to see those comments come in
almost immediately and so we're going to
actually quantify this and we're going
to shoot for about 200 milliseconds
another fun fact 200 milliseconds is
what we as humans perceive to be real
time and so if you're an interview if
you're in an interview that needs real
time 200 milliseconds is what what
you're striving for anything lower than
that frankly it doesn't matter humans
won't perceive the uh the difference
anyway and so last thing that I'll say
about these non-functional requirements
is that aim to quantify them where
possible like we did here uh and always
put them in the context of the system so
availability greater than consistency me
not that interesting but for comment
creation okay I understand why same just
low latency me of course but what
specifically in our case Comet
broadcasting and then we quantify it
same comment about out of scope or below
the line security and integrity are two
things that are often important to live
comments making sure people aren't
saying bad things um it's not something
that we're going to focus on in this
particular
interview zooming back out we can see
our next steps are to define the core
entities and then the API so we can do
that now uh the reality is that these
two parts of the interview should move
pretty quickly and particularly in this
interview they're not overly interesting
or difficult and so we should be able to
get them down pretty quickly let's start
with those core entities let me zoom in
to make this as easy as possible on you
guys what are the core entities of the
system what are the nouns of the system
what are the tables that we're going to
have these are all ways to think about
this well most importantly we're going
to have comments certainly we're also
going to have a live video now the
actual data model for the live video
where it's stored this is out of scope
this is another team that will handle
this but it's important to recognize as
an entity because we're going to have
relations to it so I'll write it down
anyway and then we're of course going to
have a user or a viewer so those are our
core entities and we can then move on to
our API and use those core entities to
shorthand our API a little bit uh so
when you get to the API the easiest
step-by-step formula here is to just go
back to your functional requirements and
go one by one through your functional
requirements making sure that you have
an API to satisfy each of these now this
isn't 100% foolproof uh for non not non-
user-facing system design interviews
something like a designer web crawler
you know this doesn't make as much sense
but if it's a product if it's a
user-facing product as live comments is
then this is a nearly fullprof way to do
this and so some uh functional
requirements may require more than one
endpoint but the process Remains the
Same go one by one through your
requirements and create the endpoints
necessary for each so the first thing is
viewers can post a comment okay great
we're going to use a rest endpoint and
we need viewers to post a comment so
what could that endpoint look like well
it's going to be a post because we're
creating a new resource what is our
resource name it's comments uh some of
you have have picked on me in the
comments ironically um for not
pluralizing my resource names so the
reality is to me as an interviewer and
to most people like who cares um but
proper restful semantics say to
pluralize your resource name so I've
done that here for you um and then we
need to know which live video we're
posting this on and so I'm going to use
a path parameter here and pass in the
live video ID now why not put this in
the body well you absolutely could um
but given that it is required you cannot
possibly create a comment uh without a
live video ID it's common here to put it
in the path parameters and so that's
what I've done here now what does this
return it can either return the comment
or 200 what's the body well the body is
the comment itself and notice how I'm
not getting caught up in the details of
like what is a comment at this point of
course a comment is going to need to
have some content uh you know if there
were extensions here then maybe it would
have a um media attachments which we're
not going to handle but I'm just
abstracting this for now and it's just a
comment it's the core entity that we've
defined as a comment is what is the the
post body there so we checked off one of
those functional requirements let's go
back up and look at what our next one is
viewers can see all comments p uh posted
in near real time um um so astute
viewers are thinking to themselves wait
a minute this is going to be a websocket
or some persistent connection you're
right and if you know that this early in
the interview go ahead and write it down
that's fantastic I'm going to take the
approach of assuming that we don't know
that or even if we do we're just going
to build things up simply and so the
simple way to do this would be that
we're just going to have some get
endpoint we're going to have some get
get comments endpoint sheesh this is why
I don't type in front of you guys like
this get comments endpoint which takes
in again that live video
ID and maybe it's just going to take in
a cursor so this is basic cursor based
pagination um and we we'll be able to
pass in the last comment ID that we saw
and this is going to return to us any
new comments that have come in since
that last comment with some page size
here maybe like 50 okay and so if you
don't know about cursor based page
donation fairly straightforward you're
just going to pass in a cursor which is
the ID of something in your database
some Row in your database and then we're
going to get everything after that and
so that's what we're doing here we're
going to get the 50 comments after this
and so we can just be calling this over
and over again in order to simulate some
sort of real time we'll talk about that
more in the high Lev design and of
course this is not the optimal solution
it's not efficient we'll do something
better but at the early phases of your
interview even if you are a staff
candidate or something it's okay to put
this down for now uh and you can just
acknowledge you know this is going to
expand this is probably going to use
some bidirectional communication or
unidirectional communication but
something persistent later on and so the
next one uh viewers can see all comments
posted before they joined well this is
essentially the same thing right we want
to get all the comments for a live video
but instead of anything after the live
comment ID we want it before the live
comment ID and similarly we want a page
size like maybe we want the 50 before
this point in time and then if we want
50 more then our last comment ID would
be updated to the uh last of that 50
that we just got and we'll get the next
50 you kind of see how that's happening
recursively but the difference here is
there's a direction in one case we're
going past comments and another we're
going future comments and so what we
could do is we just add that direction
pretty simply to our API endpoint do we
want after or do we want before that's a
way that we can that we can model
that so there you go two basic rest end
endpoints one to post a comment the
other two to get comments I'm using
basic query parameters here denoted by
the question mark for the first variable
and then the and sign uh for for the
remaining variables posts gets all
pretty straightforward thus
far so zooming back out we've done our
requirements our core entities and our
API this is kind of the general setup of
the problem at this point we've agreed
with our interviewer what we need to do
we've set our parameters our found
Foundation we know the general apis that
users are going to use to interface with
our product and now we need to move on
to that highle Design This is where
things get fun they get interesting we
start actually drawing those boxes um on
the Whiteboard and so just like with the
API with the highle design we are going
to just satisfy our functional
requirements and we can do that by going
one by one through our apis and so if we
go one by one through our apis we'll
subsequently be going one by one through
our functional requirements and we're
essentially saying when this request is
made what happens in our system what
happens in the back end of our system
and what components are necessary in
order to effectively fulfill that
request and so I'm going to move a
little bit quickly through this highle
design the reality is the highle design
for this system is is really
straightforward and I want us have
adequate time to go into deep um to go
deep on the things that are interesting
bya deep Dives um but let's talk about
what it might look like so the first
thing is that users want to be able to
post the comment we have an API for that
a post comments to a live video ID cool
let's model that what's that going to
look like for us well the first thing is
that you're going to have a client I'm
going to introduce an API Gateway it's
not strictly necessary here uh it's a
single client server database
relationship you'll find so we don't
need routing but I'm going to take
advantage of the middleware and I'm
going to introduce it uh I'm also going
to have a comment service and so this
comment service is going to be
responsible for com comment crud oper
ation let me just move it down a little
bit and then I need some way to persist
these comments and so there is my
comments theb great and so what's going
to happen is the user is going to make
that post request in order to create a
new comment our API Gateway is going to
forward that onto our comment service
our comment service is going to craft
and then initiate a query to our comment
CB in order to create that new comment
and so we talked about earlier in our
core entities how we weren't going to
talk about the data model or the schema
just yet now is the time where we do it
when we get into our high level design
you can see how it's really linear at
this point I've just told my interviewer
this is going to save a comment and
naturally now I can say well what is a
comment right a comment's going to have
some comment ID that's going to be
important it's going to have the video
ID that this comment was placed on it's
going to have the author ID um and then
it's going to have the contents of the
comment the text of the comment probably
some created at field is going to be
necess necessary and so in terms of our
query pattern we're going to be querying
by video ID a lot so we'll want an index
on that we're also going to um be
sorting by the created at column so
that'll be important as well and I'm not
going to make any decision about the
type of database yet uh in your
interview it could go either way you
could talk about it now that would be
totally fine I'm going to choose to talk
about it when we talk about scale
because I think it's going to be more
interesting the reality is for a simple
highle design here any database is going
to work
SQL database is fine here MySQL postrest
Etc key value stores document stores
they're all going to get the job done um
so I'll go into more detail on that a
little bit later but important to know
where your indexes would be what your
primary Keys would be of course comment
ID in this case so that's the thing for
us to to handle but very simple client
initiates a request we save that comment
in the database and we return with our
200 check we now have viewers can post
comments it's a simple crud service
next up is that viewers can see all
comments posted in near real time now of
course as we alluded to earlier this is
going to require some persistent
connection you'd be wise to let your
interviewer know that hey I know that
this is going to require some persistent
connection but let me start with the
simplest thing that we could do the
simplest thing that we could do is that
basic polling with that API that we
outlined here so get comments for a live
video ID that have happened since some
given last comment ID that we have this
could also be a time right different
ways to handle this time might even be
more natural um for this direction of
the query anyway but in any case what we
can do is then just have a simple client
that is going to every two to 5 Seconds
query our gateway to ask our comment
service if there are any new comments
since a given comment ID if no comment
ID is given well then there's no
comments since that point right
um that quer is simple that query is
simple regardless of what database you
chose so if it was a SQL database this
is simply you know select all comments
um where video ID equals the given video
ID and created at is greater than the
created at time of the cursor fine um
and then similar query if this is a
document store or key value store this
query is pretty straightforward
regardless of what database you choose
so if you chose a SQL database then it's
just select all comments where the video
ID is the given video ID and the created
at time is greater than the created at
time of the Cur CS or the last Red
comment nothing to it uh similarly easy
on a document store or similar awesome
so again we're just expanding this basic
crud service we can create things we can
read things nothing to it we're going to
use polling in order to just get new
comments every couple seconds and those
will be maybe not quite the near real
time we're looking for yet again
persistence uh connections will be
important later but it's a good start
for now the next thing that we needed to
do is viewers can see all comments
posted before they joined and so we had
the same API endpoint we just specified
a direction and it's the same concept
here so when a user first joins the live
video they have no comments they have no
past comments uh or they have no kind of
new comments yet we're going to probably
first load up that live video alongside
the last 50 comments or so from the
video and in order to do this we'll use
that same API endpoint we're just going
to switch the direction and in our query
that's just going to switch the greater
than or equal to on the created at sign
so now we want the last 50 comments that
are less than the current comment and
obviously we're not going to necessarily
have a current comment right out of the
gate and so if that's the case we'll
just start from the end of all existing
comments right similar concept there now
one thing that I'll note just for fun um
but this wouldn't necessarily be the
most important thing in this interview
but there's different ways to handle
this concept of a user continuing to
scroll up so you've probably done this
on Instagram or on Facebook live what
whatever it may be where you scroll up
and it fetches the last 50 and you keep
scrolling up and you want to just scroll
up and up and up and up and up maybe you
want to go all the way to the beginning
uh for whatever reason you you continue
to scroll up and read comments and
there's different ways to optimize this
one really popular thing to do with
pagination is to introduce a cache and
this is going to be a cache for a
specific user ID and in our case live
video or just video ID so that would be
the key and then it's going to be the
comment as a list here and so when a
user fetches
comments past comments we might show
them the last 50 but we're going to cash
the last 1,000 this is going to have a
really tight TTL and so maybe it just
has a TT of 5 minutes because that's
what we anticipate being the narrow
window with which they might still be
scrolling up and so now if they scroll
up above that 50 instead of having to to
issue the query we can just go grab it
from their cash and give them the next
50 now what you might be thinking is it
why don't we just give them more than 50
we can do that as well of course we can
give them thousands uh and then let the
client just show them the ones that
matter at that point there's different
optimizations here and this really would
only matter for super popular videos
where comments are coming in like crazy
and somebody may want to be scrolling up
really quick in order to fetch the next
the next group of thousands of comments
or so another pattern that we could do
again just because it's interesting and
related to pagination here not specific
only to this problem is that we can have
it be such that we send the client over
maybe the 500 last comments and then
once the user Scrolls up to about the
400th then the client is going to know
let me go optimistically fetch the next
500 because I have a feeling they might
finish this list right finish this stack
something similar to what we do in
Tinder uh if you've read that breakdown
or seen that video so I'm not going to
include this because it's not the focal
point here in design FB live comments if
anything I would just briefly comment on
that um but I wouldn't let myself get
distracted because despite how simple
this highle design is and it is quite
simple basic crud service it satisfies
all of our main functional requirements
and it's left me plenty of time in the
interview now to talk about the things
that are going to be interesting which
are going to be these non-functional
requirements around how to scale and how
to ensure this low latency and eventual
consistency all right with the highle
design be behind us it's time for
everybody's favorite part which is the
Deep Dives and so again in the Deep
Dives we're just going to go one by one
through our non-functional requirements
and expand on this simple high level
design in order to make sure that we met
all of these requirements at the end
we're going to be able to look back and
say okay I met all my functional
requirements I met all my non-functional
requirements I acce this interview give
me the offer and Life's good right so
that's our goal here uh so first off one
thing that I want to mention is the
level to which you're proactive in the
Deep Dives is a function of your
seniority and so if you're a junior or
mid-level candidate this might actually
shift now to where you're less leading
the interview and it's more of a
question answering so the interviewer
might be asking you questions you know
this polling approach isn't going to
give us the low latency requirements
we're looking for what else could you do
right for example but if you're senior
especially if you're staff the
expectation is that you identify where
the issues are and you drive the
conversation towards these things and
again the best way that you can do this
is just by going one by one through
those non-functional requirements so
let's do that now um I'm actually going
to go in reverse order here maybe I'm
going to start with low latency comment
broadcasting so this is the case where a
new comment came in it should show up on
everybody's client quickly as you
remember we're using polling right now
so we just have the client every 2 to 5
Seconds asking if there are any more
comments of course this means that our
latency is 2 to 5 Seconds as opposed to
the 200 milliseconds that we were
looking for so we're going to want to
find a way to speed that up the key
Insight is that instead of using HTTP
request responses here where the client
is saying are there any new comments and
the comment service is responding after
quering the database we need some sort
of a persistent connection here so we
need a way that we don't have to ask
every single time but instead the
comment service can just tell us as soon
as a new comment comes around and so
there's two popular Technologies to
handle this persistent connection the
first is websockets and the second is
ssse and so let's talk a little bit
about each of them I'm actually going to
paste in some notes Here Again to
prevent you guys from watching me
struggle while typing starting with
websockets websockets are bidirectional
and so you create a connection like this
and now at any point the client can say
something to the comment service but the
comment service can also say anything to
the client at any point this is great
and so in our use case you can imagine a
new comment gets created or saved by
somebody else and we just push over that
websocket right so push instead of pull
back to the client to say there's a new
comment and we can do this quickly so
this is great and it's a viable option
but websockets also have some downsides
so websockets use their own protocol
they're not over HTTP or https and this
just means that they're a little heavier
weight what happens is that they
initiate an HTTP handshake first then
they need to upgrade to a websocket
connection and you need to have all of
your infra in between all of these
places support this upgrade and so for
example the client's going to go to the
API Gateway try to do a handshake
establish a websocket connection here
right and then likewise it's going to go
create a websocket connection here so
that it can sort of be a pass through
but in the case where you have low
balancers proxies firewalls or any of
these things uh that don't support
websockets things are going to break and
this happens more than you would expect
actually so often times if you're
putting websockets into production uh
things are working in your test
environment everything's great you put
it into prod and you realize that either
it's not working at all or it's not
working for some users and this might be
because some users are Reed to corporate
firewall that's not going to allow for
these these websocket persistent
connections um it could be that you have
some production API Gateway or otherwise
which isn't going to support them and so
there are plenty of API gateways that
supported out of the box AWS managed uh
API Gateway is an example um I think
like engine X has configurations for it
right so this is by no means a a task
that cannot be achieved but it comes
with overhead and it's a bit more
complex and the main kind of interesting
bit here and maybe I'll write this
down oh I already have it there right so
websocket is perfect for when it's bir
directional there are as many reads as
there are writes so the client needs to
get as many things as it needs to send
or post and so in the case of a
messaging app this was the last video we
did check that one out with Stefan we
did WhatsApp if you haven't seen it
already but in the case of a messenger
app this is perfect because there's
likely a pretty close relationship
between the amount of messages you're
sending and the amount of messages
you're receiving but that's not the case
here with live comments the overwhelming
majority of our users are going to be in
a live video watching the live video and
and the comments are just streaming in
like the average here might be 1 to a
thousand or so you can have some users
who are active commenters but the
majority are passive they're just
watching and so it's not bidirectional
we can still post a comment periodically
with our restful API that we have with
this you know SL comments post request
that was right here on this https
endpoint um but we can receive comments
via that persistent connection and so
websockets seem to be a little bit of
Overkill so what else can we do do the
other thing that we have is that pastes
it up here ssse or this stands for
Server sent
events send events and this is actually
perfect for our use case in live
comments because it's similar to
websockets and then it it opens up this
persistent connection uh but it's
unidirectional and so in this case it's
just the uh it's it's just the case that
the comment service can push changes to
the client but the client can't say
anything to the comment service over
this
and so instead of having its own
protocol like websockets do it's just
over HTTP and https and so it uses uh it
uses HTTP headers in order to specify
that hey I'm going to be sending this
over over chunks so keep this open uh
and it basically just looks like a long
running HTTP request the other nice
thing about this is that it doesn't
require anything too fancy like browsers
have built in support to handle the
reconnections and everything that go on
here if for some reason you were to get
disconnected and so so it makes it a
much more lightweight and then given
that we only need unir unidirectional
communication it's the right choice for
us of course you can still post a
comment you're just going to post the
comment over the HTTP request response
via our post endpoint which was this guy
up here all right so hopefully that that
all makes sense now not all API gateways
similarly support ssse out of the box um
so there are still challenges here um
many of them will like close your
connection after predefined period of
time and you need to go in there and
update their configurations in order to
elongate that or specify different
headers to make it clear to the Gateway
that it shouldn't separ the connection
after say 30 seconds or 60 seconds so by
adding ssse it doesn't solve all of your
infrastructural challenges but it
definitely makes things easier
lightweight and we get the
unidirectional communication that we're
looking for so let's let's tie that
together I'm going to just by way of
abstraction draw a line through here
technically as you saw it was to the API
Gateway and then the API Gateway
forwarding to the comment server
um but I'm going to choose ssse and I
would say as much in my interview I
would weigh the trade-offs between
websockets and S as we just did and I
would come to the conclusion that SSE is
best um and so when a client now creates
a comment we are then going to look for
all other users who are listening or
watching that live video and we're going
to push over ssse that new comment so
that they get it and so you may be
thinking okay but once a new comment
comes in how does the comment service
know which users to push this to do we
need to update our database do we need
to store this state somewhere and it's a
great question but it's actually really
straightforward and so all we need to do
is have an in-memory mapping in this
comment service and so a new s
connection is established the first
thing that can happen when this is this
connection is established is that we're
letting it know maybe via the headers
which live video we're watching and so
we're saying this SEC connection is
associated with video id1 and we can
just store that mapping in memory so
here's an example of what that could
look like so these connections these are
just pointers to the respective
connections and now if a new comment
comes in for video id1 I'll look in that
mapping in memory and say who all is
connected to video one oh well I have SS
connection 1 4 and 7 so let me send it
to them and I can just do a for Loop and
do something like connection 1. send
that new comment that came in and then
it's going to show up uh to the client
for them to be able to render
as needed so this is how we're going to
enable that sub 200 millisecond latency
because a new request is going to come
in our comment service is then over ssse
going to maintain this persistent
connection that it can just push over uh
that new comment uh but you might notice
that this doesn't scale very well uh
what happens when we need to
horizontally scale our comment service
and now we have multiple of these and it
might be the case that a new comment
comes in and it lands on this server but
the people who are watching this live
video are on a completely different
server and so this one doesn't have SS
connections right it needs to somehow
communicate with this one to send it
over to them and so that's one of the
things that we'll talk about next as we
get into scaling so before we get there
we're going to look back at our
non-functional requirements we just
talked about low latency and now we're
going to jump around and we're going to
talk about
scale and so let's come back we had
talked about what that issue is if the
comment service horizontally scales then
we don't know which user is connected to
which service and which live video
they're watching and so we don't know
how to forward that onto them so let's
break this up a little bit I'm going to
move some things around I'll keep them
on the Whiteboard so you guys have them
later um but the first thing I'm going
to do is I'm going to do a little bit of
math now and you might have noticed I
didn't do math up front this seems kind
of like a faux paw system design any
you're supposed to do math up front I
disagree uh I find that most candidates
do math for the sake of doing math they
do some estimates on scale some
bandwidth they look at me they go so
it's like pretty big and then they they
go design the same system they were
going to design that's not useful math
is very important though but math should
inform your decisions and so my concrete
suggestion to you is to do math in your
interview at the point where you have a
decision that you need to make and so in
this case the decision that I want to
make is scaling here and so I want to
think about my my bottleneck we said
that we were going to have a million so
1 two 3 one two three we said that we
were going to have a million uh active
live streams at any given moment and
then we would have like a th000 viewers
we said right and so what I'm trying to
figure out is how many ssse connections
am I going to have at any given moment
because an ssse connection is probably
going to be my limiting factor here uh
boxes high powered boxes they can handle
give or take like a million ssse
connections and so we'll use that as a
rough number and then our division
becomes easy here because we have a
million concurrent videos a th000
viewers of each and so that means that
we're going to need a thousand services
in order to handle just the number of ss
connections and so we don't probably
need a th Services when it comes to
writing posts um because the amount of
memory that we have here the network
needed to write to the database will
scale this out later it would turn out
that that's probably less and so this is
our limiting factor and so what I'm
going to do right away actually is I'm
going to do the following I'm going to
separate out a separate service and I'm
going to call this like the real time
comment service um and what's going to
happen is that this service is still
going to be responsible for what it was
before of this HTTP post request in
order to get old comments uh post
request in order to create comments and
then get requests to get old comments um
but instead we're going to create the SS
connections to this guy and so let me
model that in a way that looks a little
bit
easier maybe can I make that transparent
there you go so obviously this is going
to be horizontally scaled too but what
I'm trying to get across here is that
there are a thousand of these servers
right and I separated them so that I can
scale them horizontally differently and
so I might only need a hundred of these
but a thousand of these and that's why
I've separated them out right so every
time an S connection gets established a
user started watching a live video we
are going to connect them to one of
these realtime comment services and now
you can see the issue hopefully a new
comment just came came in our comment
service got that comment and saved it to
our database and now it needs to tell
every single one of these 1,000 let's
say to make this concrete let's say that
new comment for video one just came in
and so it needs to tell every one of
these comment Services these real-time
comment services that is connected over
s to somebody who is watching video one
that it got a new comment and so somehow
we like need an arrow here uh it would
be a unidirectional Arrow right so
somehow we need to tell one of these
servers but how do we know which server
that's the big question that comes up
and so there's two ways to handle this
let me show you the first here and the
first would be that you would introduce
a central dispatcher is maybe the way to
think about this and so you'd have
something for coordination zookeeper is
a great technology to handle this
coordination and so zookeeper is going
to keep a mapping a registration of
where all of these servers live and the
live videos that they're responsible for
okay and so then what's going to happen
is that when a new client wants to
connect over ssse here it's going to
make a request either to our comment
service or realtime comment service
either way and we're going to go over to
zookeeper and say hey a new person needs
to connect they're watching live video
One which real-time comment service
should I subscribe them to and it's
going to give us a host IP address that
we should end up connecting them to so
that we can establish this SSE
connection and so let me show you here
what that might look like I'll put this
over here maybe even I'll make it a
different color right so that's what
that's what exists here in Zookeeper
it's this active mapping of all of the
different servers and the videos that
they're subscribed to and maybe how many
users they have from each of those
respectively and so now the process
would be that when a new comment comes
in the comment service let me go back to
black the comment service is going to
ask
zookeeper hey I have a video for live
video 123 uh which server should I
message that to and it's going to tell
you oh it's This Server so all good and
then we're going to come down here we're
going to draw an arrow to these guys
we're going to let them know that we
have a new message or a new comment that
came in and they can push it over to
their friends over SS again via that
inmemory mapping and so really quickly
what actually happens here is that we
don't ask zookeeper every time that's
slow uh we have a cache and so in memory
on the comment service we've cached this
mapping this Json blob so when a new
comment service comes up it asks
zookeeper the source of Truth hey what's
the registration what's the mapping let
me cat that on my server and then I'm
going to subscribe to any updates and so
any updates to zookeeper are going to
get pushed now and my comment service is
going to accept that incoming update and
update its cash respectively but tying
This Together comment comes in comment
service says either by looking at its
cash or asking zookeeper directly I had
a new comment for live video video one
which servers have ssse connections to
everybody viewing live video One it's
going to tell me it might be one it
might be multiple I'm then going to make
a request to that server with the
comment and then that comment is going
to look up in its inmemory mapping which
connections it has for that live video
and it's going to push them over ssse of
course this should be unidirectional as
well uh over ssse
to the client so the client can render
that new live comment so that's option
one that's the the central dispat
dispatcher approach there's some
downsides to this approach the first and
most obvious one is that we have an
extra hop here every time that we come
in we need to ask zookeeper and so we
largely got rid of that hop here but we
didn't on the connection when a new
thing is connected it needs to ask
zookeeper which should I connect to and
so again the cach is helping us a lot
here but there are some potential
downsides there I'm going to hold my
hands up and say this is hand waving
honestly the cash is probably fine um
but you have an extra component to
manage uh potentially an extra hop here
more importantly is that there's
complexity in handling changes to the
real-time comment services so these are
going to go up and down respectively
they might die for some reason we might
need to scale horizontally and add more
and zookeeper needs to maintain
visibility of all of that state and so
when new servers come up they have to be
registered within zookeeper zookeeper
needs to be pinging heartbeats to each
of these to know who is still up and who
isn't and so it's not just that these
servers need to know who they're
connected to or at least the number of
people they're connected to but that
needs to remain consistent with what
zookeeper sees and so we've introduced a
little bit of a consistency issue here
that has the potential or capability to
get out of sync and so zookeeper has a
lot of great tooling to make this
problem not much of a problem but these
are the potential downsides here so
that's that approach let me copy this
and show you what the other of the two
approaches would be so alternatively we
don't have zookeeper instead of having a
single source of truth that we go ask
like an all- knowing Oracle hey where
should I send this to instead what we
can do is we can just broadcast so think
about the comment service just like
yelling out into the ether maybe with a
megaphone it just says hey I just got a
new comment for live video One and then
all of these real-time comment Services
have their ears open their ears to the
street if you will and they're listening
and if they hear oh live video One I
have live video One then they'll take
that new comments and they'll do
something with it and if they hear it
and they're like oh I don't have live
video One I don't care about that they
won't do anything with it right and so
in this case we would
introduce Pub sub which is perfect for
this sort of broadcasting and
subscribing and so the comment service
is going to get a new comment it's going
to those arrows of the wrong way that's
getting
annoying um it's going going to put that
new comment on pubsub probably after
committing to the database so first for
durability uh sake commit that new
comment to the database then broadcast
it by a pubsub so put it on pubsub this
is just a channel right it's just like a
message bus um that we're going to put
this on and then all of these guys all
three of them and you know when uh in
production all up to a thousand of them
or more are subscribed to this message
bus right they're subscribed to this Pub
sub they are subscribers so this is the
publisher these are the subscribers and
so a new video comes in it's going to
yell via Pub sub new video came in and
then all of these are listening and only
those that hear one for which they know
that they have an active user who is
connected is going to take it and then
again run that connection one. send with
that new comment right so that's the the
pubsub approach the nice thing here is
that you don't have a consistency issue
anymore more and you don't because you
don't have two things that need to know
their own State these real-time comment
services are the only thing that need to
know their state and it makes uh
failures in the comment realtime comment
service a lot more graceful you can
imagine that one of these goes down well
then those users just lost their s
connection no big deal right and so
they're going to need to reconnect
they're going to reconnect to a
different one of these we probably
pulled another one up as well but
they're going to reconnect to a
different one of these the inmemory
mapping is going to be updated and then
because because we're still going over
pubsub we're just still subscribed we're
listening and we're going to send it
over to them um so these guys know what
they need to care about basically
there's no other thing that needs to be
in the picture so between these two
options there is no right or wrong
answer both of these options are great I
tend to think that this Pub sub solution
is a little bit simpler um I think
actually that FB live comments in
production went with they don't use
keeper to my knowledge but went with a
single dispatcher approach it's actually
for slightly different reasons around
scaling in collocation which we probably
won't get into in this video but both of
these approaches are absolutely valid in
an interview if you're a mid-level
candidate you're probably not going to
get into this much detail if you're a
mid-level candidate you'll say I'm going
to use Pub sub to broadcast from the
comment service to a real-time comment
service which is connected over SS your
websocket and you're golden if you're
senior it would make sense for you to
weigh these tradeoffs a little bit um
and then certainly if you're staff you
should be able to articulate the pros
and cons of each of these go into
details about them and then even
furthermore as we'll do here in just a
moment talk about how each of these May
scale respectively so now the problem
that's worth discussing briefly and this
would probably just be something that a
staff or really great senior candidate
talked about would be that all of our or
all of our real-time comment services
are subscribed to every single new
comment right now and so you look you
can look at this as like drinking
through a fire hose this is a pretty CPU
intens task now because every single
comment that comes in they're checking
in their mapping they're determining if
it's right for them if it is they're
sending but there's a lot of wasted
resources here because the overwhelming
majority of the time it's not going to
be a comment that is something that they
have an active ssse connection to for a
client right and so we want to wait for
them to just listen what to what matters
for them and so what we can do is that
we can partition our Pub sub and so if
you're using like red is Pub sub these
are called topics if you're using Kafka
they're called channels but they're all
the same thing they're just partitions
of our Pub sub you can think of them as
just like maybe oh kind of multiplying
these out there's not a lot of space
here but you get the picture uh kind of
like a stack of different message buses
here and so what you can end up doing is
just separating using something like the
hash of the video ID modul the number of
channels that you want or the number of
topics that you want so something like
that and that's how you can determine
which one of these it should go on and
then each of these real-time comment
Services don't need to subscribe to
every single topic or every single
Channel they only need to subscribe to
the sub set that they have an active
client connected to them with right so
you might only subscribe to a couple of
these and this way you're only listening
to messages that come in that are either
your live video ID or something else
that's in this hash grouping so it's not
perfect it's not like it's only your
videos uh someone might be tempted and I
hear this in interviews they're like I'm
going to partition based on
um having a topic for each live video ID
this just wouldn't work um it certainly
wouldn't work in Kafka I don't know red
is is limit off the top of my head but
it probably wouldn't work as well
there's limits reasonable feasible
limits the number of topics or channels
that you have and so that's why you want
to do this hash modulo end thing so you
can just group them together and go from
one big channel to end channels where
that end channels might be a thousand it
might be a million uh whatever is needed
for scale that's something that can
always be tweaked but then we're only
listening to the ones that matter now
the last thing that I'll mention here
and I'm going to go over this just
really briefly is that you don't want to
have let's say that there's three people
watching video one you don't want them
like randomly assigned cuz then maybe
they'll all show up on a different
server here and now three different
servers need to subscribe to the channel
for video one when we could put all
those on the same server we could
collocate those ideally you have every
single viewer of a single live video on
a single real-time comment service now
if you have a popular video with 160
million concurrent viewers or something
like the Chewbacca mom or a World Cup
final then that's not going to work
you're going to need to allocate that
over 160 of these but at least it's 160
and not
500,000 right um so that's one optim
optimization that you can handle in the
case of Zookeeper approach this actually
makes this easier uh because when a new
request comes in we're going to look at
where everybody else with that video
ideas and we're just going to tell you
to connect to that same box so this is
great for that approach
it's a little harder here the way that
this works and it's a it's a bit complex
so again not going to go into too much
detail but you can actually have a
zookeeper or
another um another service similar that
sits here and then your API Gateway via
a layer 7 low balancer can have in the
header what the live video ID is and
then ask this guy where should I route
him and then route it to the correct one
and so it's similar to the dispatcher
approach we're just only using the
dispatcher uh to do Cod location you
could make the argument at that point
then like why not just come up here and
do the dispatcher approach um like I
said both work no Pros or no no right or
wrong answer there it's just a matter of
weighing
trade-offs the last thing I'll touch on
um is that if you're a staff candidate
maybe a fantastic senior candidate
there's more you can talk about here
like for example what is the difference
between using redis or Kafka um you
actually probably don't want to use
Kafka here because Kafka has a lot of
overhead to subscribe and unsubscribe
from channels and you can imagine that
when users are scrolling through their
feed they're subscribing and
unsubscribing really quickly if they're
not clicking into a live video they're
just scrolling through their feed and so
pubsub uh with reddis being in memory
makes this a lot easier so maybe it's a
better approach there right that's the
sort of thing that you can talk about to
show staff level signal um I guess we
should talk about the database I I I
mentioned that we would come back to
that and I think now is an appropriate
time as it pertains to scale so we said
that we would have the the 1 million
videos um let's just estimate and say
there's about 100 comments per video I
think that's fair if anything it's
probably even high the overwhelming
majority of videos probably get no
comments um this is concurrent so
loosely let's say each video is about 30
minutes that's probably too long but in
any case that would mean that if they
were fully sequential this is like 48 um
is I guess a day right so this is how
many we're having a day um
it's going to grow quickly there's a lot
of Rights here and this is decent scale
480 million right is that math wrong 480
million I think I'm off by one order of
magnitude there so 4 billion um I don't
know Mental Math while you're on the
spot in a video for everybody who's
watching is difficult so forgive me but
regardless I can get a sense here that
this is a lot it's also high right
through put so we're going to want a
database that can support that high
right right through put but
realistically a postgress database if
sharded and scaled correctly can do this
SQL databases would work fine but there
are databases that are optimized for
this sort of thing and given that we
really have no relations in our data we
probably have a user and a live video ID
column uh in our query is pretty simple
it's just going to be able to query a
primary or not a primary key uh but
query an index here for for video ID and
then you know we can use the created ad
as our sort key so Cassandra is going to
work well here um it's going to be
really easy to Shard based on video ID
so we can scale this horizontally like I
said sort key on created at the query is
simple it's just to get it for a given
video ID and it's great at handling the
high right through puts um so that's
what i' probably do
there and of course this is going to
result in eventual consistency in places
which is fine so this goes back to our
nonfunctional requirement if we're going
to prioritize availability over eventual
consistency so if we go and we try to
read and we have replicas here and we're
hitting a read replica or something it
might not have the latest comment that
just came in yet that's okay we're going
to show it to the user anyway without
that latest comment no big deal and if
anything we have the pub sub or the
dispatcher um real time flow to make up
for things
there okay uh let's take a look back we
met our functional requirements we met
our non-functional requirements we went
through the full flow we nailed the
interview we're hired we're excited
hopefully this made sense the things
about this interview just to recap is
when to use websocket versus ssse
websocket is heavier weight but
necessary for bidirectional
communication we have a one to one in
the read to writes SS is unidirectional
lighter weight but this means that we
can only push from server to client um
so it's great when you have a lot more
uh Communication in that direction right
and the balance isn't even there uh we
talked about how to scale up whether
it's pubsub or a central dispatcher in
order to make sure that we can locate
the correct real time server for which
the persistent connection is on this is
a common problem this is similar to what
you're going to do in something like a
real-time messenging app for example
talk a little bit about scaling
databases um the inmemory mapping I
think we've done a good job
here all right well done if you made it
this far hopefully everything made sense
and you have a pretty good understanding
of how to design a live comment feature
for Facebook or any other live streaming
platform if you like the video give us a
like give us a subscribe if there were
questions if I did something stupid
wrong you disagree with leave a comment
let's chat about it I'd love to to
respond to as many comments as I can um
and like I said keep an eye out more
videos coming to start 2025 but all in
all hope you guys enjoyed and best of
luck with your interviews talk soon